TechEmpower - Los Angeles area, California (El Segundo, near LAX)You may recognize us from the Web Framework Benchmarks that have been discussed on HN periodically: http://www.techempower.com/benchmarks/Work Hard, Have Fun, Be NiceLet's be honest: you became a developer because you like to build things. Interesting things, useful things, cool things. It's like building with Legos, only you get paid, and there are always plenty of the right color pieces.At TechEmpower, we build things. Interesting things. Cool things, mostly in webapp form. We build them as individuals, because we're creative people. We build them as teams, because we like to help each other grow, and because we know that collaboration improves even the best code.Having the best people doesn't hurt, either. We've got most of them already, and we're looking to find the rest. You can build things with us. What's the catch? We're pretty darn selective.To work as an individual, you have to be motivated and creative and thoughtful and serious. To work on a team, you have to be respectful and energetic and open and absolutely not a jerk. We need developers who can work on every part of an application, from the data store to the page–sometimes known as full stack developers. And to be a full stack developer, you have to know technology and want to learn more technology, because those acronyms just keep coming.Our clients expect us to work with them, not for them. We help them define their problems, and we provide solutions, on time and on target. We're service-oriented, and you should be too.Still reading? Please apply! And check out our Web Framework Benchmarks while you're at it. We pretty much wrote the book on that one.Just so you know:   Teams range between 2-6 people\n   Developers are exposed to 3-4 projects per year\n   All development is done on high-performance workstations with 4K displays. A lot of code fits in 3840x2160 pixels!\n   We maintain an informal, comfortable environment, just like the old college computer science lab, but with grown-up hours\n   Everybody's nice\n\nThe technologies we use vary over time with our mix of projects. Here is a snapshot of what we're using now:   Languages: Java, JavaScript, Python, C#, Ruby, PHP\n   Tools: Git, Jenkins (Continuous Integration), Sonar (static code analysis), Eclipse, IntelliJ, Ant, Maven\n   Web: Dropwizard, .NET MVC 5, Play, Django, Rails, Mustache, Handlebars, Backbone, Angular, Knockout, JSP, Servlets, jQuery, etc.\n   Mobile: iOS, Android, PhoneGap\n   Hosting: AWS (EC2, RDS, etc.), Rackspace Cloud, Linux deployments\n   Data Persistence: ORM (Hibernate, etc.), MySQL, Postgres, MS SQL Server, NoSQL (Redis, MongoDB)\n\nWe don't expect new hires to have experience with all of these, but we do expect you'll learn more about them every day.If this sounds like the kind of place you'd like to work, please apply here: http://jobs.techempower.com/hn2