> First, itself "wild" and not "wiled".Thank you for the correction, and I am guessing you mean "it is" rather than "itself" in the above correction of my spelling.> Second, Apple doesn't allow "virus scanners," which is why you'll never hear companies like Sophos talking about malware on iOS -- they have nothing to gain.1. Until recently Apple did allow virus scanners on iOS. However, those programs were largely useless for 2 reasons. First, because without a jailbreak you can not run unsigned code on iOS, unless you have found a jailbreak vulnerability that can be exploited directly on the device, but I haven't see those since iOS 3 or 4. Second, because iOS jails each app, so one app can not scan the file system or any of the other apps on the OS. Conversely, one app can not maliciously attack or install unsigned code on the OS without a jailbreak.2. Sophos would have a lot to gain from exposing wide spread malware in the App Store. Such news would pressure Apple to reconsider their decision and allow virus scanners into the App Store, or at least clean up their act. One way or another, it would be a lot of GOOD pub for Sophos.3. Given that there are many jailbroken iPhones, and that it's trivial to access app files on a jailbroken iPhone, it would be easy for Google to run their own Malware scanners on AppStore submissions. Considering that they would most certainly (according to you) find hundreds, if not hundreds of thousands, instances of Malware, it would be a wonderful PR story for Google, once and for all proving the undeniable superiority of the Android OS. And yet, I have yet to read that story. Forget Google, HTC, Sony, LG, and any number of other manufacturers would have direct pecuniary interest in discrediting Apple by proving to the world that the AppStore is teaming with Malware. I guess all of the above mentioned companies are operated by utter idiots, if we are to believe your assertions.> If you are in the right circles, you know there is plenty of malware on the App Store -- it's significantly easier to get it on the App Store than it is to get it on the Play Store.What are these "right circles?" Links, facts, anything to backup the above statement?> The main deterrent to malware on both platforms is the requirement that the app publisher have a credit card, which the stores both verify.Use a prepaid VISA card, put any name and address you like. Works like a charm, you can register an account like that on either store.> Finally, you seem to be confusing manual scanning, static analysis, dynamic analysis, and human review to the point where it's hard to even figure out what you're claiming.You are confusing the meaning of such terms as manual scanning, static analysis, dynamic analysis, and human review. There, we both made utterly unsubstantiated claims, now we are even!> Google implemented dynamic analysis long before 2014 (your "wiled west"), which Apple very clearly still hasn't done.1. Thank you yet again for pointing out the SAME typo in my previous post for the second time in your reply. To return the curtesy, I would also like to point out that "itself" and "it is" do not have the same meaning in the english language. I do understand that this page is frequented by many people from other countries, who may speak different languages. I, for instance, speak fluently 2 languages, in addition to English. So I do apologize ahead of time if you are indeed an ESL person, but to improve your knowledge of the English language I felt the need to point out your mistake yet again.2. Could you please provide any proof what so ever to your claimed assertion that Apple does NOT conduct dynamic analysis.3. Please refer to this article [0] which details utter inaptitude of PlayStore's dynamic analysis tools in 2014.[0] http://www.syssec-project.eu/m/page-media/3/petsas_rage_%20a...